This Android application is supposed to detect if the person is not moving. Typically this might happen in a medical emergency (No breathing or heat beat). This application works on an android  device (phones, tablets etc.) which have a 3 axis accelerometer. The application detects movements. If the movements are below a particular threshold than the application begins to beep and  a countdown is initiated and finally the application begins to dial  and send out SMSes with the GPS co-ordinates to the numbers that are keyed into the settings.

While the application in its current form is restricted because it sends out the alert only after the fact(No breathing or heat beat) the hope is that there will be android devices in the future that can detect the heart rate and breathing rate and send out an alert if the rates are too high or too low.

Situations when the app cannot be used:
---------------------------------------
1) In moving vehicles. If a person stops moving, the movements of the vehicle will contribute to the movements of the Android device.
2) In tall buildings. I assume that the micro sway of the building may contribute to movements of the Android device.

How to test (To do: make video: These instructions would be too complicated for most people.)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1) Hit "Open settings" button on the main screen of the app. key in the following settings:
	a) Contacts section. Key in a phone number of a cell phone (so that the cell phone can recieve an sms).
		Make sure that the Dial and SMS text box is checked.
2) a)Settings -> Threshhold put in a value of 500. (Default is 275)
		b) Settings ->Countdown before dialing: put in a value of 3 (default is 10)
3)Advanced settings->
	 Hibernate time -> put in a value of 0 (default is 10) This is a battery saving feature.
	 
Navigate to the main screen. And hit the "Start" button. Put the phone down in a movement free place. (For example floor, window sill, bed etc.).
Within a minute the app should ideally start beeping and then will dial out the number that you keyed in the Contacts scton. It will also send out an SMS with the GPS co-ordinates to that number. You may verify that the GPS co-ordinates by keying them into Google maps.
This would test if the android device can indeed call out and send an SMS.

4) Now set the Settings -> Threshhold value to 275. 
	a) Hit the start button again.
		Hold the device still in your hand. If the device does not beep go to instruction 5 a) . If it beeps, stop the app decrease the threshold by say 10 points. (so now the new threshhold would be 265).
	b) repeat step 4 a) untill you hear no beeps.

5) a) Now put the phone down in movement free place. Wait for a minute. Does the phone beep ? If it doesn't, , stop the app increase 
	the threshold by say 10 points. 

	b) repeat step 5 a) untill you begin to hear beeps followed by a countdown.
	
6) To summarize (finally!) for the ideal threshold value your phone must not beep when the device is on you (hand, pocket etc) and it must beep and then dial/send sms when it is kept in a movement free place.

ToDo
-----
App can be sometimes unresponsive when dialing is initiated.
No way to stop the dialing other numbers onece dialing is initiated.
Find a way to Auto tune the Threshold value.
